docs/LIVEKIT_DOCKER_MIGRATION.md, before:

# LiveKit Docker Migration - Complete

## Status: ✅ Complete and Released

**Date:** November 15, 2025  
**Version:** 0.8.1-dev  
**Release:** Patch (LiveKit Docker Migration)

## Changes Applied

### 1. Killed Homebrew LiveKit Process
- Terminated PID 91947 (livekit-server --dev)
- No LiveKit processes currently running

### 2. Updated docker-compose.yml
Added LiveKit service with:
- Official image: `livekit/livekit-server:latest`
- HTTP/WebSocket port: 7880
- RTC TCP port: 7881
- WebRTC UDP range: 50000-60000
- Health check endpoint
- Volume mount for config: `./livekit-config.yaml`
- Environment: `LIVEKIT_KEYS=devkey:secret`
- Depends on Redis (healthy)

### 3. Updated Backend Configuration
- Changed `LIVEKIT_URL` from `ws://host.docker.internal:7880` to `ws://livekit:7880`
- Added LiveKit service as dependency with health check
- Removed `extra_hosts` workaround
- Uses native Docker networking

### 4. Frontend Configuration (Already Correct)
- `.env.local` already configured for local development:
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_LIVEKIT_URL=ws://localhost:7880`
- Frontend connects to Docker port mapping (localhost:7880 → livekit:7880)

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│  Frontend (Next.js) │
│   localhost:3000    │
└──────────┬──────────┘
           │
           ├─→ ws://localhost:7880 (LiveKit - mapped from Docker)
           └─→ http://localhost:8000 (Backend)
                      │
        ┌─────────────┴─────────────┐
        │  Docker Network: foundry  │
        ├───────────────────────────┤
        │                           │
        │  livekit:7880            │←─ LiveKit Server
        │  redis:6379              │←─ Redis State
        │  foundry-backend:8000    │←─ FastAPI + LangGraph
        │  foundry-compiler:8002   │←─ DIS Compiler
        └───────────────────────────┘
```

## Next Steps - Start the Stack

### Pull LiveKit Image
```bash
docker pull livekit/livekit-server:latest
```

### Start All Services
```bash
cd /Users/nwalker/Development/Projects/agentfoundry
docker-compose up -d
```

### Verify Services Running
```bash
# Check all containers
docker-compose ps

# Should show:
# - livekit (healthy)
# - redis (healthy)
# - foundry-backend (running, depends on livekit + redis)
# - foundry-compiler (running)
```

### Check LiveKit Logs
```bash
docker-compose logs -f livekit
```

### Test LiveKit Health
```bash
# Should return HTTP 200
curl http://localhost:7880

# Or visit in browser to see LiveKit server info
open http://localhost:7880
```

### Start Frontend (Separate Terminal)
```bash
cd /Users/nwalker/Development/Projects/agentfoundry
npm run dev
```

### Verify Full Integration
1. Open http://localhost:3000/chat
2. Check browser console for LiveKit connection
3. Backend logs should show LiveKit client initialized
4. Test voice feature in chat UI

## Troubleshooting

### LiveKit Container Won't Start
```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs livekit

# Common issues:
# 1. Port 7880 already in use
lsof -ti:7880 | xargs kill -9

# 2. Config file syntax error
docker-compose config
```

### Backend Can't Connect to LiveKit
```bash
# Verify LiveKit is healthy
docker-compose ps livekit

# Test network connectivity from backend
docker-compose exec foundry-backend ping livekit

# Check backend logs
docker-compose logs foundry-backend | grep -i livekit
```

### Frontend Can't Connect
```bash
# Verify port mapping
docker-compose port livekit 7880

# Should output: 0.0.0.0:7880

# Check .env.local
grep LIVEKIT .env.local
```

### WebRTC Connection Issues
```bash
# Ensure UDP ports are mapped
docker-compose ps livekit

# May need to adjust firewall for UDP 50000-60000
# Check livekit-config.yaml ICE servers
```

## Files Modified

1. `docker-compose.yml` - Added LiveKit service, updated backend config
2. Commit: `feat: migrate LiveKit to Docker service` (5dd59bd)

## Files NOT Modified (Already Correct)

1. `.env.local` - Frontend LiveKit URL already correct
2. `livekit-config.yaml` - Existing config works with Docker
3. `backend/livekit_service.py` - No changes needed
4. Backend/Compiler Dockerfiles - Already exist

## Deployment Readiness

✅ **All services containerized** - Ready for:
- Terraform provisioning
- GitLab CI/CD pipelines
- AWS EC2 deployment
- Docker image registry push
- Multi-environment configs (dev/staging/prod)

## Next Milestones (Per MVP Plan)

- [x] Week 1, Day 1-2: LiveKit Docker setup ← **YOU ARE HERE**
- [ ] Week 1, Day 3-4: Docker Compose testing & refinement
- [ ] Week 1, Day 5: AWS EC2 deployment preparation
- [ ] Week 2: DIS Compiler implementation
- [ ] Week 3: CI/CD & Production readiness

## Validation Checklist

Run these commands to validate the migration:

```bash
# 1. Pull image
docker pull livekit/livekit-server:latest

# 2. Start stack
docker-compose up -d

# 3. Wait for health checks (30 seconds)
sleep 30

# 4. Verify all healthy
docker-compose ps

# 5. Test LiveKit HTTP
curl -f http://localhost:7880 && echo "✅ LiveKit HTTP OK"

# 6. Test Redis
docker-compose exec redis redis-cli ping

# 7. Check backend can reach LiveKit
docker-compose exec foundry-backend ping -c 2 livekit

# 8. Start frontend
npm run dev

# 9. Open chat UI
open http://localhost:3000/chat
```

## Success Criteria

✅ All containers show "healthy" status  
✅ LiveKit responds on localhost:7880  
✅ Backend logs show LiveKit client initialized  
✅ Frontend connects to LiveKit WebSocket  
✅ No Homebrew processes running  

---

**Status:** Ready to execute validation checklist above

Commit message:

Here’s a commit message that matches the scope and pain: feat: replatform Agent Foundry dev stack and overhaul docs- Replace legacy Engineering Department README with Agent Foundry platform overview and doc map- Add START_HERE.md for 30-minute onboarding (local dev, AWS deploy, DIS/Forge pointers)- Consolidate local Docker docs into DOCKER_DEV_WORKFLOW.md and mark older Docker notes as legacy- Split deployment docs into legacy EC2 flow (DEPLOYMENT.md + deploy/DEPLOYMENT_EC2_LEGACY.md) and new ECS/Fargate guide (docs/AWS_DEPLOYMENT_ECS.md)- Normalize LiveKit/voice docs, making Docker LiveKit the default in LIVEKIT_SETUP.md and tagging migration docs as historical- Add local/AWS diagnostic scripts (monitor_local_health.sh, monitor_aws_health.sh, check_alb_targets.sh) and wire them into scripts/README.md + QUICK_REFERENCE.md- Fix container healthchecks and dependency gating in docker-compose so the app actually launches reliably in dev

docs/LIVEKIT_DOCKER_MIGRATION.md, after:

## LEGACY / ARCHIVE – LiveKit Docker Migration

> **Note:** This document records the migration from Homebrew LiveKit to a Dockerized LiveKit service.  
> The **current LiveKit / voice setup guide** is `LIVEKIT_SETUP.md`, which describes the Docker‑based architecture and how to run it today.

# LiveKit Docker Migration - Complete

## Status: ✅ Complete and Released

**Date:** November 15, 2025  
**Version:** 0.8.1-dev  
**Release:** Patch (LiveKit Docker Migration)

## Changes Applied

### 1. Killed Homebrew LiveKit Process
- Terminated PID 91947 (livekit-server --dev)
- No LiveKit processes currently running

### 2. Updated docker-compose.yml
Added LiveKit service with:
- Official image: `livekit/livekit-server:latest`
- HTTP/WebSocket port: 7880
- RTC TCP port: 7881
- WebRTC UDP range: 50000-60000
- Health check endpoint
- Volume mount for config: `./livekit-config.yaml`
- Environment: `LIVEKIT_KEYS=devkey:secret`
- Depends on Redis (healthy)

### 3. Updated Backend Configuration
- Changed `LIVEKIT_URL` from `ws://host.docker.internal:7880` to `ws://livekit:7880`
- Added LiveKit service as dependency with health check
- Removed `extra_hosts` workaround
- Uses native Docker networking

### 4. Frontend Configuration (Already Correct)
- `.env.local` already configured for local development:
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_LIVEKIT_URL=ws://localhost:7880`
- Frontend connects to Docker port mapping (localhost:7880 → livekit:7880)

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│  Frontend (Next.js) │
│   localhost:3000    │
└──────────┬──────────┘
           │
           ├─→ ws://localhost:7880 (LiveKit - mapped from Docker)
           └─→ http://localhost:8000 (Backend)
                      │
        ┌─────────────┴─────────────┐
        │  Docker Network: foundry  │
        ├───────────────────────────┤
        │                           │
        │  livekit:7880            │←─ LiveKit Server
        │  redis:6379              │←─ Redis State
        │  foundry-backend:8000    │←─ FastAPI + LangGraph
        │  foundry-compiler:8002   │←─ DIS Compiler
        └───────────────────────────┘
```

## Next Steps - Start the Stack

### Pull LiveKit Image
```bash
docker pull livekit/livekit-server:latest
```

### Start All Services
```bash
cd /Users/nwalker/Development/Projects/agentfoundry
docker-compose up -d
```

### Verify Services Running
```bash
# Check all containers
docker-compose ps

# Should show:
# - livekit (healthy)
# - redis (healthy)
# - foundry-backend (running, depends on livekit + redis)
# - foundry-compiler (running)
```

### Check LiveKit Logs
```bash
docker-compose logs -f livekit
```

### Test LiveKit Health
```bash
# Should return HTTP 200
curl http://localhost:7880

# Or visit in browser to see LiveKit server info
open http://localhost:7880
```

### Start Frontend (Separate Terminal)
```bash
cd /Users/nwalker/Development/Projects/agentfoundry
npm run dev
```

### Verify Full Integration
1. Open http://localhost:3000/chat
2. Check browser console for LiveKit connection
3. Backend logs should show LiveKit client initialized
4. Test voice feature in chat UI

## Troubleshooting

### LiveKit Container Won't Start
```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs livekit

# Common issues:
# 1. Port 7880 already in use
lsof -ti:7880 | xargs kill -9

# 2. Config file syntax error
docker-compose config
```

### Backend Can't Connect to LiveKit
```bash
# Verify LiveKit is healthy
docker-compose ps livekit

# Test network connectivity from backend
docker-compose exec foundry-backend ping livekit

# Check backend logs
docker-compose logs foundry-backend | grep -i livekit
```

### Frontend Can't Connect
```bash
# Verify port mapping
docker-compose port livekit 7880

# Should output: 0.0.0.0:7880

# Check .env.local
grep LIVEKIT .env.local
```

### WebRTC Connection Issues
```bash
# Ensure UDP ports are mapped
docker-compose ps livekit

# May need to adjust firewall for UDP 50000-60000
# Check livekit-config.yaml ICE servers
```

## Files Modified

1. `docker-compose.yml` - Added LiveKit service, updated backend config
2. Commit: `feat: migrate LiveKit to Docker service` (5dd59bd)

## Files NOT Modified (Already Correct)

1. `.env.local` - Frontend LiveKit URL already correct
2. `livekit-config.yaml` - Existing config works with Docker
3. `backend/livekit_service.py` - No changes needed
4. Backend/Compiler Dockerfiles - Already exist

## Deployment Readiness

✅ **All services containerized** - Ready for:
- Terraform provisioning
- GitLab CI/CD pipelines
- AWS EC2 deployment
- Docker image registry push
- Multi-environment configs (dev/staging/prod)

## Next Milestones (Per MVP Plan)

- [x] Week 1, Day 1-2: LiveKit Docker setup ← **YOU ARE HERE**
- [ ] Week 1, Day 3-4: Docker Compose testing & refinement
- [ ] Week 1, Day 5: AWS EC2 deployment preparation
- [ ] Week 2: DIS Compiler implementation
- [ ] Week 3: CI/CD & Production readiness

## Validation Checklist

Run these commands to validate the migration:

```bash
# 1. Pull image
docker pull livekit/livekit-server:latest

# 2. Start stack
docker-compose up -d

# 3. Wait for health checks (30 seconds)
sleep 30

# 4. Verify all healthy
docker-compose ps

# 5. Test LiveKit HTTP
curl -f http://localhost:7880 && echo "✅ LiveKit HTTP OK"

# 6. Test Redis
docker-compose exec redis redis-cli ping

# 7. Check backend can reach LiveKit
docker-compose exec foundry-backend ping -c 2 livekit

# 8. Start frontend
npm run dev

# 9. Open chat UI
open http://localhost:3000/chat
```

## Success Criteria

✅ All containers show "healthy" status  
✅ LiveKit responds on localhost:7880  
✅ Backend logs show LiveKit client initialized  
✅ Frontend connects to LiveKit WebSocket  
✅ No Homebrew processes running  

---

**Status:** Ready to execute validation checklist above
